README.md, before:

# MCP SDL3 Server

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides SDL3 API documentation, code examples, and reference information for AI assistants. Built with [FastMCP](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp) for a clean, maintainable codebase.

**Current Release:** [v0.1.0](https://github.com/jvolden/mcp-sdl/releases/tag/v0.1.0) - Early prerelease with 119 SDL3 functions and basic tooling!

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Available Tools](#available-tools)
- [Usage with AI Assistants](#usage-with-ai-assistants)
- [Development](#development)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [For AI-Assisted Development](#for-ai-assisted-development)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [License](#license)

## Features

- **SDL3 Function Reference**: Look up any SDL3 function with detailed API documentation
- **Function Search**: Search for functions by category or keyword  
- **SDL3 Code Examples**: Browse and retrieve full working examples from examples.libsdl.org
- **Example Search**: Find examples by keyword across all categories
- **SDL2 to SDL3 Migration Guides**: Comprehensive migration guides for transitioning from SDL2 to SDL3

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager (see [installation guide](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/))

### Quick Start

Add to your AI assistant's MCP configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "mcp-sdl": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": [
        "--from",
        "git+https://github.com/jvolden/mcp-sdl",
        "mcp-sdl"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Restart your AI assistant, and the SDL3 tools will be available.

## Available Tools

### API Reference Tools

- **sdl_function_reference**
  - Get detailed API documentation for a specific SDL3 function
  - Inputs:
    - `function_name` (string, required): Name of the SDL3 function (e.g., "SDL_Init", "SDL_CreateWindow")
  - Returns complete function signature, parameters, description, and code example

- **sdl_search_functions**
  - Search for SDL3 functions by category or keyword
  - Inputs:
    - `query` (string, optional): Search term or category name (e.g., "window", "audio", "render", "event"). If empty, returns all functions.
  - Returns list of matching functions with descriptions

### Example Tools

- **sdl_examples**
  - Access SDL3 code examples from examples.libsdl.org
  - Inputs (all optional):
    - `category` (string): Category name (e.g., "renderer", "audio", "input")
    - `example_id` (string): Example identifier (e.g., "01-clear", "06-textures")
    - `query` (string): Search term (e.g., "texture", "gamepad")
  - Behavior:
    - No parameters: List all available categories with example counts
    - `category` only: List all examples in that category with descriptions
    - `category` + `example_id`: Get complete source code for that example
    - `query` only: Search for examples by keyword across all categories

### Migration Tools

- **sdl_migration**
  - Access SDL2 to SDL3 migration guides and documentation
  - Inputs (all optional):
    - `sdl2_name` (string): SDL2 symbol name (e.g., "SDL_OpenAudio", "SDL_INIT_VIDEO", "SDL_AudioSpec")
    - `header_name` (string): SDL2 header name (e.g., "SDL_audio.h", "SDL_render.h", "SDL_video.h")
    - `query` (string): Search term (e.g., "removed", "renamed", "audio callback")
  - Behavior:
    - No parameters: List all available migration guide headers
    - `sdl2_name` only: Look up migration info for that specific SDL2 symbol
    - `header_name` only: Get complete migration guide for that header file
    - `query` only: Search across all migration guides for keywords

## Usage with AI Assistants

Once configured, AI assistants can use this server to:

1. **Look up SDL3 functions**: "What does SDL_CreateRenderer do?"
2. **Search for functions**: "Show me all SDL3 rendering functions"
3. **Browse code examples**: "List available SDL3 renderer examples"
4. **Get example source code**: "Show me the SDL3 texture rendering example"
5. **Migrate from SDL2**: "How do I migrate SDL_OpenAudio from SDL2 to SDL3?"

The server provides accurate API documentation and examples based on SDL3's official resources.

## Developmentexample categories"
4. **Get example source code**: "Show me the SDL3 clear example from the renderer category"
5. **Search examples**: "Find SDL3 examples about textures"
6. **Migrate from SDL2**: "How do I migrate SDL_OpenAudio from SDL2 to SDL3?"
7. **Search migration guides**: "Show me all SDL2 functions that were removed in SDL3
# Clone and setup
git clone https://github.com/jvolden/mcp-sdl.git
cd mcp-sdl
uv sync

# Test the server
uv run mcp-sdl --help

# Run tests
uv run pytest

# Check test coverage
uv run pytest --cov --cov-report=term-missing

# Generate HTML coverage report
uv run pytest --cov --cov-report=html
# Open htmlcov/index.html in browser

# Lint code with ruff
uv run ruff check .

# Auto-fix linting issues
uv run ruff check --fix .

# Format code with ruff
uv run ruff format .
```

### VS Code Setup

For VS Code users who want to test the MCP server locally:

1. **Copy the template**: `cp mcp.json.template .vscode/mcp.json`
2. **Update the path**: Change `/path/to/your/mcp-sdl/project` to your actual project directory
3. **Restart VS Code**: The MCP server will be available to GitHub Copilot

Example `.vscode/mcp.json` (create from template):
```json
{
  "servers": {
    "mcp-sdl": {
      "type": "stdio", 
      "command": "uv",
      "args": ["--directory", "/your/actual/path/mcp-sdl", "run", "mcp-sdl"]
    }
  }
}
```

Alternatively, for published releases, you can use uvx:
```json
{
  "servers": {
    "mcp-sdl": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "uvx", 
      "args": ["--from", "git+https://github.com/jvolden/mcp-sdl", "mcp-sdl"]
    }
  }
}
```

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed contribution guidelines.

For AI-assisted contributions, use the **contributor** skill in VS Code with GitHub Copilot.

**Quick ways to contribute:**
- Add more SDL3 functions to the reference database
- Expand code examples for different languages
- Improve documentation and examples
- Report issues or suggest features

### For AI-Assisted Development

When using GitHub Copilot or other AI assistants in VS Code:

- Use **contributor** skill for general contribution guidance
- The **mcp-developer** skill automatically activates for any code changes
  - Ensures consistent module structure and patterns
  - Enforces 100% test coverage
  - Guides design decisions with trade-off analysis
  - Handles SDL3 API, examples, tests, and refactoring

See [`.github/skills/mcp-developer/`](.github/skills/mcp-developer/) for implementation patterns.

## Resources

- [SDL3 Official Documentation](https://wiki.libsdl.org/SDL3/)
- [SDL3 GitHub Repository](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL)
- [SDL3 Migration Guide](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/blob/main/docs/README-migration.md)
- [Model Context Protocol Documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)
- [FastMCP Framework](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp)

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

Commit message:

Fix corrupted Development section and restore complete Usage examples
- Clean up garbled text in Development section
- Restore proper formatting for development setup instructions
- Add back missing examples in 'Usage with AI Assistants' section
- Ensure all 7 usage examples are present and properly formatted

Fixes #12

README.md, after:

# MCP SDL3 Server

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides SDL3 API documentation, code examples, and reference information for AI assistants. Built with [FastMCP](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp) for a clean, maintainable codebase.

**Current Release:** [v0.1.0](https://github.com/jvolden/mcp-sdl/releases/tag/v0.1.0) - Early prerelease with 119 SDL3 functions and basic tooling!

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Available Tools](#available-tools)
- [Usage with AI Assistants](#usage-with-ai-assistants)
- [Development](#development)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [For AI-Assisted Development](#for-ai-assisted-development)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [License](#license)

## Features

- **SDL3 Function Reference**: Look up any SDL3 function with detailed API documentation
- **Function Search**: Search for functions by category or keyword  
- **SDL3 Code Examples**: Browse and retrieve full working examples from examples.libsdl.org
- **Example Search**: Find examples by keyword across all categories
- **SDL2 to SDL3 Migration Guides**: Comprehensive migration guides for transitioning from SDL2 to SDL3

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager (see [installation guide](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/))

### Quick Start

Add to your AI assistant's MCP configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "mcp-sdl": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": [
        "--from",
        "git+https://github.com/jvolden/mcp-sdl",
        "mcp-sdl"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Restart your AI assistant, and the SDL3 tools will be available.

## Available Tools

### API Reference Tools

- **sdl_function_reference**
  - Get detailed API documentation for a specific SDL3 function
  - Inputs:
    - `function_name` (string, required): Name of the SDL3 function (e.g., "SDL_Init", "SDL_CreateWindow")
  - Returns complete function signature, parameters, description, and code example

- **sdl_search_functions**
  - Search for SDL3 functions by category or keyword
  - Inputs:
    - `query` (string, optional): Search term or category name (e.g., "window", "audio", "render", "event"). If empty, returns all functions.
  - Returns list of matching functions with descriptions

### Example Tools

- **sdl_examples**
  - Access SDL3 code examples from examples.libsdl.org
  - Inputs (all optional):
    - `category` (string): Category name (e.g., "renderer", "audio", "input")
    - `example_id` (string): Example identifier (e.g., "01-clear", "06-textures")
    - `query` (string): Search term (e.g., "texture", "gamepad")
  - Behavior:
    - No parameters: List all available categories with example counts
    - `category` only: List all examples in that category with descriptions
    - `category` + `example_id`: Get complete source code for that example
    - `query` only: Search for examples by keyword across all categories

### Migration Tools

- **sdl_migration**
  - Access SDL2 to SDL3 migration guides and documentation
  - Inputs (all optional):
    - `sdl2_name` (string): SDL2 symbol name (e.g., "SDL_OpenAudio", "SDL_INIT_VIDEO", "SDL_AudioSpec")
    - `header_name` (string): SDL2 header name (e.g., "SDL_audio.h", "SDL_render.h", "SDL_video.h")
    - `query` (string): Search term (e.g., "removed", "renamed", "audio callback")
  - Behavior:
    - No parameters: List all available migration guide headers
    - `sdl2_name` only: Look up migration info for that specific SDL2 symbol
    - `header_name` only: Get complete migration guide for that header file
    - `query` only: Search across all migration guides for keywords

## Usage with AI Assistants

Once configured, AI assistants can use this server to:

1. **Look up SDL3 functions**: "What does SDL_CreateRenderer do?"
2. **Search for functions**: "Show me all SDL3 rendering functions"
3. **Browse code examples**: "List available SDL3 renderer examples"
4. **Get example source code**: "Show me the SDL3 clear example from the renderer category"
5. **Search examples**: "Find SDL3 examples about textures"
6. **Migrate from SDL2**: "How do I migrate SDL_OpenAudio from SDL2 to SDL3?"
7. **Search migration guides**: "Show me all SDL2 functions that were removed in SDL3"

The server provides accurate API documentation and examples based on SDL3's official resources.

## Development

### Local Development Setup

```bash
# Clone and setup
git clone https://github.com/jvolden/mcp-sdl.git
cd mcp-sdl
uv sync

# Test the server
uv run mcp-sdl --help

# Run tests
uv run pytest

# Check test coverage
uv run pytest --cov --cov-report=term-missing

# Generate HTML coverage report
uv run pytest --cov --cov-report=html
# Open htmlcov/index.html in browser

# Lint code with ruff
uv run ruff check .

# Auto-fix linting issues
uv run ruff check --fix .

# Format code with ruff
uv run ruff format .
```

### VS Code Setup

For VS Code users who want to test the MCP server locally:

1. **Copy the template**: `cp mcp.json.template .vscode/mcp.json`
2. **Update the path**: Change `/path/to/your/mcp-sdl/project` to your actual project directory
3. **Restart VS Code**: The MCP server will be available to GitHub Copilot

Example `.vscode/mcp.json` (create from template):
```json
{
  "servers": {
    "mcp-sdl": {
      "type": "stdio", 
      "command": "uv",
      "args": ["--directory", "/your/actual/path/mcp-sdl", "run", "mcp-sdl"]
    }
  }
}
```

Alternatively, for published releases, you can use uvx:
```json
{
  "servers": {
    "mcp-sdl": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "uvx", 
      "args": ["--from", "git+https://github.com/jvolden/mcp-sdl", "mcp-sdl"]
    }
  }
}
```

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed contribution guidelines.

For AI-assisted contributions, use the **contributor** skill in VS Code with GitHub Copilot.

**Quick ways to contribute:**
- Add more SDL3 functions to the reference database
- Expand code examples for different languages
- Improve documentation and examples
- Report issues or suggest features

### For AI-Assisted Development

When using GitHub Copilot or other AI assistants in VS Code:

- Use **contributor** skill for general contribution guidance
- The **mcp-developer** skill automatically activates for any code changes
  - Ensures consistent module structure and patterns
  - Enforces 100% test coverage
  - Guides design decisions with trade-off analysis
  - Handles SDL3 API, examples, tests, and refactoring

See [`.github/skills/mcp-developer/`](.github/skills/mcp-developer/) for implementation patterns.

## Resources

- [SDL3 Official Documentation](https://wiki.libsdl.org/SDL3/)
- [SDL3 GitHub Repository](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL)
- [SDL3 Migration Guide](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/blob/main/docs/README-migration.md)
- [Model Context Protocol Documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)
- [FastMCP Framework](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp)

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details
